feat: anon piece selection and retrieval (#487)
FilOzone/dealbot: docs/environment-variables.md

---

### `SUBGRAPH_ENDPOINT`

> 

Reviewer: we must support both until we can migrate. I would prefer not changing at all.. PDP_SUBGRAPH_ENDPOINT is self describing and doesn't require following up

Author: Do we need to support both for any other reason than naming? Because similar to [this comment](https://github.com/FilOzone/dealbot/pull/487#discussion_r3180627753), the new subgraph should be a drop-in replacement of the current one

- **Required**: No
- **Default**: Empty string (feature disabled)

> **Role**: The Graph API endpoint for the upstream pdp-explorer subgraph. Drives the data-retention overdue-periods metric.

Reviewer 2: I think keep what we had before.

> This variable is kept distinct from [`SUBGRAPH_ENDPOINT`](#subgraph_endpoint) so the dealbot-owned subgraph can be rolled out incrementally — only the new anonymous-retrieval flow points at the new endpoint while the established data-retention path stays on the upstream subgraph.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This variable is kept distinct from [`SUBGRAPH_ENDPOINT`](#subgraph_endpoint) so the [dealbot-owned subgraph](../../src/subgraph) can be rolled out incrementally. Only the newer [anonymous-retrieval check](./checks/anon-retrievals.md) points at the new endpoint while the established [data-retention check](./checks/data-retention.md) stays on the upstream subgraph.
```

---

### `SUBGRAPH_ENDPOINT`

- **Type**: `string` (URL)
- **Required**: No
- **Default**: Empty string (feature disabled)

**Role**: The Graph API endpoint for the dealbot-owned subgraph. Currently drives only the [anonymous-retrieval](./checks/anon-retrievals.md) candidate-piece query. Once the dealbot-owned subgraph has soaked in production it is intended to replace [`PDP_SUBGRAPH_ENDPOINT`](#pdp_subgraph_endpoint).

> The dealbot-owned subgraph lives at `apps/subgraph/` (package `@dealbot/subgraph`) and is deployed to Goldsky. Point this variable at one of those slots; the exact slugs are documented in `apps/subgraph/README.md`.

Reviewer 2: Lets add links to source code for easier huan navigation.

**When to update**:

- When swapping between the dealbot-owned subgraph slots on Goldsky (mainnet vs calibnet).

> - When deploying a new subgraph version.

Reviewer 2: Per this review https://github.com/FilOzone/dealbot/pull/469#pullrequestreview-4295194113 , I'd like to see some of this discussion instead landing back in our overall release process documentation. We should be covering the sequence of steps for doing a subgraph release/deployment, and one of those steps is updating this environment variable in our infra.

Author: Documented in https://github.com/FilOzone/dealbot/pull/542 and deployment changes not necessary if we use tagged subgraphs (given a backwards compatible change)

**Note**: This is independent of HTTP-level timeouts. The job timeout enforces end-to-end execution time of a Retrieval Check job.

---

### `ANON_RETRIEVAL_JOB_TIMEOUT_SECONDS`

- **Type**: `number`
- **Required**: No
- **Default**: `360` (6 minutes)
- **Minimum**: `60`
- **Enforced**: Yes (config validation)

> **Role**: Maximum runtime for anonymous retrieval jobs before forced abort. Anonymous retrievals fetch arbitrary pieces (up to ~70 MiB) that were not produced by the dealbot, so this is typically larger than `RETRIEVAL_JOB_TIMEOUT_SECONDS`. When the timeout trips, partial metrics (`ttfb_ms`, `bytes_retrieved`, `response_code`) are still persisted so the abort is not silently lost.

Reviewer 2: I thought we support 500 MiB per docs elsewhere?

Author: true, I changed values back and forth and missed updating this one!
